# `lc-phonecontrol-plugin`
## DEV documentation

This plugin implements a server to connect to an Android phone and control it from LifeCompanion.  
The server is able to work with ADB and Bluetooth.

### Build the plugin
The recommended way to build the plugin is to use `./gradlew clean buildApp downloadAdb jar`.  
- `clean` : Cleans the project, removes any previous build artifacts.
- `buildApp` : Builds the APK of the Android app (unsigned) and moves it to the plugin's resources.
- `downloadAdb` : Downloads the ADB binaries for the current platform and moves them to the plugin's resources.
- `jar` : Builds the plugin JAR file.

If you only made changes to the plugin, you can run only `./gradlew jar`. APK and ADB artifacts are kept in the app's resources directory.

### JSON schema specification
The plugin and the phone communicate via the server through JSON messages.  
The JSON format is structured to contain metadata about the sender, the type of transmission, subtype, and the data itself. This allows the server to properly interpret what action is required, be it sending an SMS, making a call, or handling volume settings. Below, we outline all possible fields, their meanings, and examples.
```json
{
  "sender": "<pc|phone>",
  "type": "<call|sms|system>",
  "subtype": "<specific subtype>",
  "request_id": "<unique identifier>",
  "data": {
    "<object containing>": "<specific information>"
  }
}
```
- **sender**: Indicates which entity is initiating the transmission.
  - Values: `"pc"` or `"phone"`
- **type**: Represents the type of transmission.
  - Values: `"call"`, `"sms"`, `"system"`
- **subtype**: Provides more specific information related to the type.
  - Subtype values vary depending on `type`.
- **request_id**: A unique identifier for the request.
  - This field is optional and can be used to track requests.
  - It is generated by the sender and can be any string (usually a UUID v4).
  - The server will return the same `request_id` in the response.
- **data**: Contains a JSON object relevant to the action :

#### Type : **call**
- **Subtypes** :
  1. **"make_call"**
    - Description : Initiates a call to a specified number.
    - Data example :
      ```json
      {
        "phone_number": "+123456789"
      }
      ```
  2. **"hang_up"**
    - Description : Ends an active call.
    - Data example : `{}` (Empty data)
  3. **"numpad_input"**
    - Description : Sends DTMF (Dual-Tone Multi-Frequency) input, used for interacting with automated systems.
    - Data example :
      ```json
      {
        "dtmf": "1"
      }
      ```
  4. **get_call_status**
    - Description : Requests the current call status.
    - Data example : `{}` (Empty data)

#### Type : **sms**
- **Subtypes** :
  1. **"send_sms"**
    - Description: Sends an SMS to a specified recipient.
    - Data example :
      ```json
      {
        "recipient": "+123456789",
        "message": "Hello, how are you?",
        "timestamp": "2024-12-06T14:30:00Z"
      }
      ```
  2. **"receive_sms"**
    - Description : Receives an SMS from a contact.
    - Data example :
      ```json
      {
        "sender": "+123456789",
        "message": "I'm good, thanks!",
        "timestamp": "2024-12-06T14:32:00Z"
      }
      ```
  3. **"get_sms_conversations"**
    - Description : Requests a list of SMS conversations.
    - Data example : `{}` (Empty data)
  4. **"get_conversation_messages"**
    - Description : Gets all messages from a specific conversation.
    - Data example :
      ```json
      {
        "contact_number": "+123456789"
      }
      ```

#### Type : **system**
- **Subtype** : **"adjust_volume"**
  - Description : Adjusts the phone's volume.
  - Values can be "increase" or "decrease".
  - Data example :
    ```json
    {
      "mode": "increase"
    }
    ```

#### Example JSON objects
1. **Sending an SMS**
  ```json
  {
    "sender": "pc",
    "type": "sms",
    "subtype": "send_sms",
    "request_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
    "data": {
      "recipient": "+123456789",
      "message": "Hello, this is a test message",
      "timestamp": "2024-12-06T14:30:00Z"
    }
  }
  ```
2. **Adjusting volume**
  ```json
  {
    "sender": "pc",
    "type": "system",
    "subtype": "adjust_volume",
    "data": {
      "mode": "decrease"
    }
  }
  ```
3. **Making a call**
  ```json
  {
    "sender": "pc",
    "type": "call",
    "subtype": "make_call",
    "request_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
    "data": {
      "phone_number": "+123456789"
    }
  }
  ```
4. **List SMS conversations**
  ```json
  {
    "sender": "pc",
    "type": "sms",
    "subtype": "get_sms_conversations",
    "request_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
    "data": {}
  }
  ```

### Android app
The Android app is responsible for handling the phone's functionalities. It communicates with the server to perform actions like sending SMS, making calls, and adjusting volume. The app is built using Kotlin and requires the Android SDK to compile and run.  
More information can be found in its respective [README](android/README.md).

### ADB
Get latest from https://dl.google.com/android/repository/platform-tools-latest-windows.zip and https://dl.google.com/android/repository/platform-tools-latest-linux.zip  
Maybe check https://developer.android.com/tools/adb#wireless-android11-command-line in place of Bluetooth connexion.
